'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-REMOVE" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-remove \[em] Remove dependencies from a Cargo.toml manifest file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo remove\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdependency\fR\[u2026]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Remove one or more dependencies from a \fBCargo.toml\fR manifest.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Section options"
.sp
\fB\-\-dev\fR
.RS 4
Remove as a \fIdevelopment dependency\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#development\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-build\fR
.RS 4
Remove as a \fIbuild dependency\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#build\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-target\fR \fItarget\fR
.RS 4
Remove as a dependency to the \fIgiven target platform\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#platform\-specific\-dependencies>\&.
.sp
To avoid unexpected shell expansions, you may use quotes around each target, e.g., \fB\-\-target 'cfg(unix)'\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Miscellaneous Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
.RS 4
Don\[cq]t actually write to the manifest.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Manifest Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBCargo.toml\fR file. By default, Cargo searches for the
\fBCargo.toml\fR file in the current directory or any parent directory.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-frozen\fR, 
\fB\-\-locked\fR
.RS 4
Either of these flags requires that the \fBCargo.lock\fR file is
up\-to\-date. If the lock file is missing, or it needs to be updated, Cargo will
exit with an error. The \fB\-\-frozen\fR flag also prevents Cargo from
attempting to access the network to determine if it is out\-of\-date.
.sp
These may be used in environments where you want to assert that the
\fBCargo.lock\fR file is up\-to\-date (such as a CI build) or want to avoid network
access.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-offline\fR
.RS 4
Prevents Cargo from accessing the network for any reason. Without this
flag, Cargo will stop with an error if it needs to access the network and
the network is not available. With this flag, Cargo will attempt to
proceed without the network if possible.
.sp
Beware that this may result in different dependency resolution than online
mode. Cargo will restrict itself to crates that are downloaded locally, even
if there might be a newer version as indicated in the local copy of the index.
See the \fBcargo\-fetch\fR(1) command to download dependencies before going
offline.
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBnet.offline\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Package Selection"
.sp
\fB\-p\fR \fIspec\fR\[u2026], 
\fB\-\-package\fR \fIspec\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Package to remove from.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Remove \fBregex\fR as a dependency
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo remove regex
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Remove \fBtrybuild\fR as a dev\-dependency
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo remove \-\-dev trybuild
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Remove \fBnom\fR from the \fBx86_64\-pc\-windows\-gnu\fR dependencies table
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo remove \-\-target x86_64\-pc\-windows\-gnu nom
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1), \fBcargo\-add\fR(1)
