.TH "CARGO\-RUSTC" "1" "July 2016" "The Rust package manager" "Cargo Manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
cargo\-rustc \- Compile a package and all of its dependencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]cargo rustc\f[] [OPTIONS] [\-\-] [<OPTS>...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
The specified target for the current package (or package specified by
SPEC if provided) will be compiled along with all of its dependencies.
The specified ...
will all be passed to the final compiler invocation, not any of the
dependencies.
Note that the compiler will still unconditionally receive arguments such
as \-L, \-\-extern, and \-\-crate\-type, and the specified ...
will simply be added to the compiler invocation.
.PP
This command requires that only one target is being compiled.
If more than one target is available for the current package the filters
of \-\-lib, \-\-bin, etc, must be used to select which target is
compiled.
To pass flags to all compiler processes spawned by Cargo, use the
$RUSTFLAGS environment variable or the \f[C]build.rustflags\f[]
configuration option.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p \f[I]SPEC\f[], \-\-package SPEC\f[]
The profile to compiler for.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-j \f[I]N\f[], \-\-jobs \f[I]N\f[]
Number of parallel jobs, defaults to # of CPUs.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-lib
Build only this package\[aq]s library.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-bin \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified binary.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-example \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified example.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-test \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified test target.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-bench \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified benchmark target.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-release
Build artifacts in release mode, with optimizations.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-profile \f[I]PROFILE
Profile to build the selected target for.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-features \f[I]FEATURES\f[]
The version to yank or un\-yank.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-all\-features
Build all available features.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-default\-features
Do not compile default features for the package.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-target \f[I]TRIPLE\f[]
Target triple which compiles will be for.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-manifest-path \f[I]PATH\f[]
Path to the manifest to fetch dependencies for.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Use verbose output.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No output printed to stdout.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-color \f[I]WHEN\f[]
Coloring: auto, always, never.
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cargo(1), cargo\-run(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
This work is dual\-licensed under Apache 2.0 and MIT terms.
See \f[I]COPYRIGHT\f[] file in the cargo source distribution.
