'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-NEW" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-new \[em] Create a new Cargo package
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo new\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpath\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command will create a new Cargo package in the given directory. This
includes a simple template with a \fBCargo.toml\fR manifest, sample source file,
and a VCS ignore file. If the directory is not already in a VCS repository,
then a new repository is created (see \fB\-\-vcs\fR below).
.sp
See \fBcargo\-init\fR(1) for a similar command which will create a new manifest
in an existing directory.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "New Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-bin\fR
.RS 4
Create a package with a binary target (\fBsrc/main.rs\fR).
This is the default behavior.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-lib\fR
.RS 4
Create a package with a library target (\fBsrc/lib.rs\fR).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-edition\fR \fIedition\fR
.RS 4
Specify the Rust edition to use. Default is 2021.
Possible values: 2015, 2018, 2021
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-name\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Set the package name. Defaults to the directory name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-vcs\fR \fIvcs\fR
.RS 4
Initialize a new VCS repository for the given version control system (git,
hg, pijul, or fossil) or do not initialize any version control at all
(none). If not specified, defaults to \fBgit\fR or the configuration value
\fBcargo\-new.vcs\fR, or \fBnone\fR if already inside a VCS repository.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-registry\fR \fIregistry\fR
.RS 4
This sets the \fBpublish\fR field in \fBCargo.toml\fR to the given registry name
which will restrict publishing only to that registry.
.sp
Registry names are defined in \fICargo config files\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
If not specified, the default registry defined by the \fBregistry.default\fR
config key is used. If the default registry is not set and \fB\-\-registry\fR is not
used, the \fBpublish\fR field will not be set which means that publishing will not
be restricted.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Create a binary Cargo package in the given directory:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo new foo
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1), \fBcargo\-init\fR(1)
