'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-UNINSTALL" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-uninstall \[em] Remove a Rust binary
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo uninstall\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIspec\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command removes a package installed with \fBcargo\-install\fR(1). The \fIspec\fR
argument is a package ID specification of the package to remove (see
\fBcargo\-pkgid\fR(1)).
.sp
By default all binaries are removed for a crate but the \fB\-\-bin\fR and
\fB\-\-example\fR flags can be used to only remove particular binaries.
.sp
The installation root is determined, in order of precedence:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB\-\-root\fR option
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBCARGO_INSTALL_ROOT\fR environment variable
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBinstall.root\fR Cargo \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBCARGO_HOME\fR environment variable
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB$HOME/.cargo\fR
.RE
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Install Options"
.sp
\fB\-p\fR, 
\fB\-\-package\fR \fIspec\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Package to uninstall.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-bin\fR \fIname\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Only uninstall the binary \fIname\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-root\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Directory to uninstall packages from.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Uninstall a previously installed package.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo uninstall ripgrep
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1), \fBcargo\-install\fR(1)
