.TH "CARGO\-DOC" "1" "May 2016" "The Rust package manager" "Cargo Manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
cargo\-doc \- Build a package\[aq]s documentation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]cargo doc\f[] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Build a package\[aq]s documentation.
.PP
By default the documentation for the local package and all dependencies
is built.
The output is all placed in \[aq]target/doc\[aq] in rustdoc\[aq]s usual
format.
.PP
If the \f[B]\-\-package\f[] argument is given, then \f[I]SPEC\f[] is a
package id specification which indicates which package should be built.
If it is not given, then the current package is built.
For more information on \f[I]SPEC\f[] and its format, see the "cargo
help pkgid" command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p \f[I]SPEC\f[], \-\-package \f[I]SPEC ...\f[]
Package to document.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-open
Opens the docs in a browser after the operation.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-deps
Don\[aq]t build documentation for dependencies.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-j \f[I]N\f[], \-\-jobs \f[I]N\f[]
The number of jobs to run in parallel.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-release
Build artifacts in release mode, with optimizations.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-features \f[I]FEATURES\f[]
Space\-separated list of features to also build.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-default\-features
Do not build the \f[C]default\f[] feature.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-target \f[I]TRIPLE\f[]
Build for the target triple.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-manifest\-path \f[I]PATH\f[]
Path to the manifest to compile.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Use verbose output.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No output printed to stdout.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-color \f[I]WHEN\f[]
Coloring: auto, always, never.
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Build a local package documentation in \[aq]target/doc\[aq]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ cargo\ doc
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cargo(1), cargo\-build(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
This work is dual\-licensed under Apache 2.0 and MIT terms.
See \f[I]COPYRIGHT\f[] file in the cargo source distribution.
