'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-TEST" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-test \[em] Execute unit and integration tests of a package
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo test\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fItestname\fR] [\fB\-\-\fR \fItest\-options\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Compile and execute unit, integration, and documentation tests.
.sp
The test filtering argument \fBTESTNAME\fR and all the arguments following the two
dashes (\fB\-\-\fR) are passed to the test binaries and thus to \fIlibtest\fR (rustc\[cq]s
built in unit\-test and micro\-benchmarking framework).  If you\[cq]re passing
arguments to both Cargo and the binary, the ones after \fB\-\-\fR go to the binary,
the ones before go to Cargo.  For details about libtest\[cq]s arguments see the
output of \fBcargo test \-\- \-\-help\fR and check out the rustc book\[cq]s chapter on
how tests work at <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/rustc/tests/index.html>\&.
.sp
As an example, this will filter for tests with \fBfoo\fR in their name and run them
on 3 threads in parallel:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test foo \-\- \-\-test\-threads 3
.fi
.RE
.sp
Tests are built with the \fB\-\-test\fR option to \fBrustc\fR which creates a special
executable by linking your code with libtest. The executable automatically
runs all functions annotated with the \fB#[test]\fR attribute in multiple threads.
\fB#[bench]\fR annotated functions will also be run with one iteration to verify
that they are functional.
.sp
If the package contains multiple test targets, each target compiles to a
special executable as aforementioned, and then is run serially.
.sp
The libtest harness may be disabled by setting \fBharness = false\fR in the target
manifest settings, in which case your code will need to provide its own \fBmain\fR
function to handle running tests.
.SS "Documentation tests"
Documentation tests are also run by default, which is handled by \fBrustdoc\fR\&. It
extracts code samples from documentation comments of the library target, and
then executes them.
.sp
Different from normal test targets, each code block compiles to a doctest
executable on the fly with \fBrustc\fR\&. These executables run in parallel in
separate processes. The compilation of a code block is in fact a part of test
function controlled by libtest, so some options such as \fB\-\-jobs\fR might not
take effect. Note that this execution model of doctests is not guaranteed
and may change in the future; beware of depending on it.
.sp
See the \fIrustdoc book\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/rustdoc/> for more information
on writing doc tests.
.SS "Working directory of tests"
The working directory when running each unit and integration test is set to the
root directory of the package the test belongs to.
Setting the working directory of tests to the package\[cq]s root directory makes it
possible for tests to reliably access the package\[cq]s files using relative paths,
regardless from where \fBcargo test\fR was executed from.
.sp
For documentation tests, the working directory when invoking \fBrustdoc\fR is set to
the workspace root directory, and is also the directory \fBrustdoc\fR uses as the
compilation directory of each documentation test.
The working directory when running each documentation test is set to the root
directory of the package the test belongs to, and is controlled via \fBrustdoc\fR\[cq]s
\fB\-\-test\-run\-directory\fR option.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Test Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-run\fR
.RS 4
Compile, but don\[cq]t run tests.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-fail\-fast\fR
.RS 4
Run all tests regardless of failure. Without this flag, Cargo will exit
after the first executable fails. The Rust test harness will run all tests
within the executable to completion, this flag only applies to the executable
as a whole.
.RE
.SS "Package Selection"
By default, when no package selection options are given, the packages selected
depend on the selected manifest file (based on the current working directory if
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR is not given). If the manifest is the root of a workspace then
the workspaces default members are selected, otherwise only the package defined
by the manifest will be selected.
.sp
The default members of a workspace can be set explicitly with the
\fBworkspace.default\-members\fR key in the root manifest. If this is not set, a
virtual workspace will include all workspace members (equivalent to passing
\fB\-\-workspace\fR), and a non\-virtual workspace will include only the root crate itself.
.sp
\fB\-p\fR \fIspec\fR\[u2026], 
\fB\-\-package\fR \fIspec\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test only the specified packages. See \fBcargo\-pkgid\fR(1) for the
SPEC format. This flag may be specified multiple times and supports common Unix
glob patterns like \fB*\fR, \fB?\fR and \fB[]\fR\&. However, to avoid your shell accidentally 
expanding glob patterns before Cargo handles them, you must use single quotes or
double quotes around each pattern.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-workspace\fR
.RS 4
Test all members in the workspace.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-all\fR
.RS 4
Deprecated alias for \fB\-\-workspace\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fISPEC\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Exclude the specified packages. Must be used in conjunction with the
\fB\-\-workspace\fR flag. This flag may be specified multiple times and supports
common Unix glob patterns like \fB*\fR, \fB?\fR and \fB[]\fR\&. However, to avoid your shell
accidentally expanding glob patterns before Cargo handles them, you must use
single quotes or double quotes around each pattern.
.RE
.SS "Target Selection"
When no target selection options are given, \fBcargo test\fR will build the
following targets of the selected packages:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'lib \[em] used to link with binaries, examples, integration tests, and doc tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'bins (only if integration tests are built and required features are
available)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'examples \[em] to ensure they compile
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'lib as a unit test
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'bins as unit tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'integration tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'doc tests for the lib target
.RE
.sp
The default behavior can be changed by setting the \fBtest\fR flag for the target
in the manifest settings. Setting examples to \fBtest = true\fR will build and run
the example as a test, replacing the example\[cq]s \fBmain\fR function with the
libtest harness. If you don\[cq]t want the \fBmain\fR function replaced, also include
\fBharness = false\fR, in which case the example will be built and executed as\-is.
.sp
Setting targets to \fBtest = false\fR will stop them from being tested by default.
Target selection options that take a target by name (such as \fB\-\-example foo\fR)
ignore the \fBtest\fR flag and will always test the given target.
.sp
Doc tests for libraries may be disabled by setting \fBdoctest = false\fR for the
library in the manifest.
.sp
See \fIConfiguring a target\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/cargo\-targets.html#configuring\-a\-target>
for more information on per\-target settings.
.sp
Binary targets are automatically built if there is an integration test or
benchmark being selected to test. This allows an integration
test to execute the binary to exercise and test its behavior. 
The \fBCARGO_BIN_EXE_<name>\fR
\fIenvironment variable\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html#environment\-variables\-cargo\-sets\-for\-crates>
is set when the integration test is built so that it can use the
\fI\f(BIenv\fI macro\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/std/macro.env.html> to locate the
executable.
.sp
Passing target selection flags will test only the specified
targets. 
.sp
Note that \fB\-\-bin\fR, \fB\-\-example\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR and \fB\-\-bench\fR flags also 
support common Unix glob patterns like \fB*\fR, \fB?\fR and \fB[]\fR\&. However, to avoid your 
shell accidentally expanding glob patterns before Cargo handles them, you must 
use single quotes or double quotes around each glob pattern.
.sp
\fB\-\-lib\fR
.RS 4
Test the package\[cq]s library.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-bin\fR \fIname\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test the specified binary. This flag may be specified multiple times
and supports common Unix glob patterns.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-bins\fR
.RS 4
Test all binary targets.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-example\fR \fIname\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test the specified example. This flag may be specified multiple times
and supports common Unix glob patterns.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-examples\fR
.RS 4
Test all example targets.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-test\fR \fIname\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test the specified integration test. This flag may be specified
multiple times and supports common Unix glob patterns.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-tests\fR
.RS 4
Test all targets in test mode that have the \fBtest = true\fR manifest
flag set. By default this includes the library and binaries built as
unittests, and integration tests. Be aware that this will also build any
required dependencies, so the lib target may be built twice (once as a
unittest, and once as a dependency for binaries, integration tests, etc.).
Targets may be enabled or disabled by setting the \fBtest\fR flag in the
manifest settings for the target.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-bench\fR \fIname\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test the specified benchmark. This flag may be specified multiple
times and supports common Unix glob patterns.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-benches\fR
.RS 4
Test all targets in benchmark mode that have the \fBbench = true\fR
manifest flag set. By default this includes the library and binaries built
as benchmarks, and bench targets. Be aware that this will also build any
required dependencies, so the lib target may be built twice (once as a
benchmark, and once as a dependency for binaries, benchmarks, etc.).
Targets may be enabled or disabled by setting the \fBbench\fR flag in the
manifest settings for the target.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-all\-targets\fR
.RS 4
Test all targets. This is equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-lib \-\-bins \-\-tests \-\-benches \-\-examples\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-doc\fR
.RS 4
Test only the library\[cq]s documentation. This cannot be mixed with other
target options.
.RE
.SS "Feature Selection"
The feature flags allow you to control which features are enabled. When no
feature options are given, the \fBdefault\fR feature is activated for every
selected package.
.sp
See \fIthe features documentation\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#command\-line\-feature\-options>
for more details.
.sp
\fB\-F\fR \fIfeatures\fR, 
\fB\-\-features\fR \fIfeatures\fR
.RS 4
Space or comma separated list of features to activate. Features of workspace
members may be enabled with \fBpackage\-name/feature\-name\fR syntax. This flag may
be specified multiple times, which enables all specified features.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-all\-features\fR
.RS 4
Activate all available features of all selected packages.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-default\-features\fR
.RS 4
Do not activate the \fBdefault\fR feature of the selected packages.
.RE
.SS "Compilation Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-target\fR \fItriple\fR
.RS 4
Test for the given architecture. The default is the host architecture. The general format of the triple is
\fB<arch><sub>\-<vendor>\-<sys>\-<abi>\fR\&. Run \fBrustc \-\-print target\-list\fR for a
list of supported targets. This flag may be specified multiple times.
.sp
This may also be specified with the \fBbuild.target\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.sp
Note that specifying this flag makes Cargo run in a different mode where the
target artifacts are placed in a separate directory. See the
\fIbuild cache\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/guide/build\-cache.html> documentation for more details.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-r\fR, 
\fB\-\-release\fR
.RS 4
Test optimized artifacts with the \fBrelease\fR profile.
See also the \fB\-\-profile\fR option for choosing a specific profile by name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Test with the given profile.
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/profiles.html> for more details on profiles.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-ignore\-rust\-version\fR
.RS 4
Test the target even if the selected Rust compiler is older than the
required Rust version as configured in the project\[cq]s \fBrust\-version\fR field.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-timings=\fR\fIfmts\fR
.RS 4
Output information how long each compilation takes, and track concurrency
information over time. Accepts an optional comma\-separated list of output
formats; \fB\-\-timings\fR without an argument will default to \fB\-\-timings=html\fR\&.
Specifying an output format (rather than the default) is unstable and requires
\fB\-Zunstable\-options\fR\&. Valid output formats:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBhtml\fR (unstable, requires \fB\-Zunstable\-options\fR): Write a human\-readable file \fBcargo\-timing.html\fR to the
\fBtarget/cargo\-timings\fR directory with a report of the compilation. Also write
a report to the same directory with a timestamp in the filename if you want
to look at older runs. HTML output is suitable for human consumption only,
and does not provide machine\-readable timing data.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBjson\fR (unstable, requires \fB\-Zunstable\-options\fR): Emit machine\-readable JSON
information about timing information.
.RE
.RE
.SS "Output Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-target\-dir\fR \fIdirectory\fR
.RS 4
Directory for all generated artifacts and intermediate files. May also be
specified with the \fBCARGO_TARGET_DIR\fR environment variable, or the
\fBbuild.target\-dir\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
Defaults to \fBtarget\fR in the root of the workspace.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
By default the Rust test harness hides output from test execution to keep
results readable. Test output can be recovered (e.g., for debugging) by passing
\fB\-\-nocapture\fR to the test binaries:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test \-\- \-\-nocapture
.fi
.RE
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-message\-format\fR \fIfmt\fR
.RS 4
The output format for diagnostic messages. Can be specified multiple times
and consists of comma\-separated values. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBhuman\fR (default): Display in a human\-readable text format. Conflicts with
\fBshort\fR and \fBjson\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBshort\fR: Emit shorter, human\-readable text messages. Conflicts with \fBhuman\fR
and \fBjson\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBjson\fR: Emit JSON messages to stdout. See
\fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/external\-tools.html#json\-messages>
for more details. Conflicts with \fBhuman\fR and \fBshort\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBjson\-diagnostic\-short\fR: Ensure the \fBrendered\fR field of JSON messages contains
the \[lq]short\[rq] rendering from rustc. Cannot be used with \fBhuman\fR or \fBshort\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBjson\-diagnostic\-rendered\-ansi\fR: Ensure the \fBrendered\fR field of JSON messages
contains embedded ANSI color codes for respecting rustc\[cq]s default color
scheme. Cannot be used with \fBhuman\fR or \fBshort\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBjson\-render\-diagnostics\fR: Instruct Cargo to not include rustc diagnostics
in JSON messages printed, but instead Cargo itself should render the
JSON diagnostics coming from rustc. Cargo\[cq]s own JSON diagnostics and others
coming from rustc are still emitted. Cannot be used with \fBhuman\fR or \fBshort\fR\&.
.RE
.RE
.SS "Manifest Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBCargo.toml\fR file. By default, Cargo searches for the
\fBCargo.toml\fR file in the current directory or any parent directory.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-frozen\fR, 
\fB\-\-locked\fR
.RS 4
Either of these flags requires that the \fBCargo.lock\fR file is
up\-to\-date. If the lock file is missing, or it needs to be updated, Cargo will
exit with an error. The \fB\-\-frozen\fR flag also prevents Cargo from
attempting to access the network to determine if it is out\-of\-date.
.sp
These may be used in environments where you want to assert that the
\fBCargo.lock\fR file is up\-to\-date (such as a CI build) or want to avoid network
access.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-offline\fR
.RS 4
Prevents Cargo from accessing the network for any reason. Without this
flag, Cargo will stop with an error if it needs to access the network and
the network is not available. With this flag, Cargo will attempt to
proceed without the network if possible.
.sp
Beware that this may result in different dependency resolution than online
mode. Cargo will restrict itself to crates that are downloaded locally, even
if there might be a newer version as indicated in the local copy of the index.
See the \fBcargo\-fetch\fR(1) command to download dependencies before going
offline.
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBnet.offline\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SS "Miscellaneous Options"
The \fB\-\-jobs\fR argument affects the building of the test executable but does not
affect how many threads are used when running the tests. The Rust test harness
includes an option to control the number of threads used:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test \-j 2 \-\- \-\-test\-threads=2
.fi
.RE
.sp
\fB\-j\fR \fIN\fR, 
\fB\-\-jobs\fR \fIN\fR
.RS 4
Number of parallel jobs to run. May also be specified with the
\fBbuild.jobs\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&. Defaults to
the number of logical CPUs. If negative, it sets the maximum number of
parallel jobs to the number of logical CPUs plus provided value. If
a string \fBdefault\fR is provided, it sets the value back to defaults.
Should not be 0.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-future\-incompat\-report\fR
.RS 4
Displays a future\-incompat report for any future\-incompatible warnings
produced during execution of this command
.sp
See \fBcargo\-report\fR(1)
.RE
.sp
While \fBcargo test\fR involves compilation, it does not provide a \fB\-\-keep\-going\fR
flag. Use \fB\-\-no\-fail\-fast\fR to run as many tests as possible without stopping at
the first failure. To \[lq]compile\[rq] as many tests as possible, use \fB\-\-tests\fR to
build test binaries separately. For example:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo build \-\-tests \-\-keep\-going
cargo test \-\-tests \-\-no\-fail\-fast
.fi
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Execute all the unit and integration tests of the current package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Run only tests whose names match against a filter string:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test name_filter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Run only a specific test within a specific integration test:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo test \-\-test int_test_name \-\- modname::test_name
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1), \fBcargo\-bench\fR(1), \fItypes of tests\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/cargo\-targets.html#tests>, \fIhow to write tests\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/rustc/tests/index.html>
