.TH "CARGO\-BUILD" "1" "May 2016" "The Rust package manager" "Cargo Manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
cargo\-build \- Compile the current project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]cargo build\f[] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compile a local package and all of its dependencies.
.PP
If the \f[B]\-\-package\f[] argument is given, then \f[I]SPEC\f[] is a
package id specification which indicates which package should be built.
If it is not given, then the current package is built.
For more information on \f[I]SPEC\f[] and its format, see the "cargo
help pkgid" command.
.PP
Compilation can be configured via the use of profiles which are
configured in the manifest.
The default profile for this command is \f[I]dev\f[], but passing the
\f[B]\-\-release\f[] flag will use the \f[I]release\f[] profile instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p \f[I]SPEC\f[], \-\-package \f[I]SPEC ...\f[]
Package to build.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-j \f[I]IN\f[], \-\-jobs \f[I]IN\f[]
The number of jobs to run in parallel.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-lib
Build only this package\[aq]s library.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-bin \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified binary.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-example \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified example.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-test \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified test target.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-bench \f[I]NAME\f[]
Build only the specified benchmark target.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-release
Build artifacts in release mode, with optimizations.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-features \f[I]FEATURES\f[]
Space\-separated list of features to also build.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-default\-features
Do not build the \f[C]default\f[] feature.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-target \f[I]TRIPLE\f[]
Build for the target triple.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-manifest\-path \f[I]PATH\f[]
Path to the manifest to compile.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Use verbose output.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
No output printed to stdout.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-color \f[I]WHEN\f[]
Coloring: auto, always, never.
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Build a local package and all of its dependencies
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ cargo\ build
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Build a package with optimizations
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ cargo\ build\ \-\-release
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cargo(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
This work is dual\-licensed under Apache 2.0 and MIT terms.
See \f[I]COPYRIGHT\f[] file in the cargo source distribution.
