'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-VENDOR" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-vendor \[em] Vendor all dependencies locally
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo vendor\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIpath\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This cargo subcommand will vendor all crates.io and git dependencies for a
project into the specified directory at \fB<path>\fR\&. After this command completes
the vendor directory specified by \fB<path>\fR will contain all remote sources from
dependencies specified. Additional manifests beyond the default one can be
specified with the \fB\-s\fR option.
.sp
The configuration necessary to use the vendored sources would be printed to
stdout after \fBcargo vendor\fR completes the vendoring process.
You will need to add or redirect it to your Cargo configuration file,
which is usually \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR locally for the current package.
.sp
Cargo treats vendored sources as read\-only as it does to registry and git sources.
If you intend to modify a crate from a remote source,
use \fB[patch]\fR or a \fBpath\fR dependency pointing to a local copy of that crate.
Cargo will then correctly handle the crate on incremental rebuilds,
as it knows that it is no longer a read\-only dependency.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Vendor Options"
.sp
\fB\-s\fR \fImanifest\fR, 
\fB\-\-sync\fR \fImanifest\fR
.RS 4
Specify an extra \fBCargo.toml\fR manifest to workspaces which should also be
vendored and synced to the output. May be specified multiple times.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-delete\fR
.RS 4
Don\[cq]t delete the \[lq]vendor\[rq] directory when vendoring, but rather keep all
existing contents of the vendor directory
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-respect\-source\-config\fR
.RS 4
Instead of ignoring \fB[source]\fR configuration by default in \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR
read it and use it when downloading crates from crates.io, for example
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-versioned\-dirs\fR
.RS 4
Normally versions are only added to disambiguate multiple versions of the
same package. This option causes all directories in the \[lq]vendor\[rq] directory
to be versioned, which makes it easier to track the history of vendored
packages over time, and can help with the performance of re\-vendoring when
only a subset of the packages have changed.
.RE
.SS "Manifest Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBCargo.toml\fR file. By default, Cargo searches for the
\fBCargo.toml\fR file in the current directory or any parent directory.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-locked\fR
.RS 4
Asserts that the exact same dependencies and versions are used as when the
existing \fBCargo.lock\fR file was originally generated. Cargo will exit with an
error when either of the following scenarios arises:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'The lock file is missing.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Cargo attempted to change the lock file due to a different dependency resolution.
.RE
.sp
It may be used in environments where deterministic builds are desired,
such as in CI pipelines.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-offline\fR
.RS 4
Prevents Cargo from accessing the network for any reason. Without this
flag, Cargo will stop with an error if it needs to access the network and
the network is not available. With this flag, Cargo will attempt to
proceed without the network if possible.
.sp
Beware that this may result in different dependency resolution than online
mode. Cargo will restrict itself to crates that are downloaded locally, even
if there might be a newer version as indicated in the local copy of the index.
See the \fBcargo\-fetch\fR(1) command to download dependencies before going
offline.
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBnet.offline\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-frozen\fR
.RS 4
Equivalent to specifying both \fB\-\-locked\fR and \fB\-\-offline\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-lockfile\-path\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the path of the lockfile from the default (\fB<workspace_root>/Cargo.lock\fR) to \fIPATH\fR\&. \fIPATH\fR must end with
\fBCargo.lock\fR (e.g. \fB\-\-lockfile\-path /tmp/temporary\-lockfile/Cargo.lock\fR). Note that providing
\fB\-\-lockfile\-path\fR will ignore existing lockfile at the default path, and instead will
either use the lockfile from \fIPATH\fR, or write a new lockfile into the provided \fIPATH\fR if it doesn\[cq]t exist.
This flag can be used to run most commands in read\-only directories, writing lockfile into the provided \fIPATH\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#14421\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/14421>).
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Vendor all dependencies into a local \[lq]vendor\[rq] folder
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo vendor
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Vendor all dependencies into a local \[lq]third\-party/vendor\[rq] folder
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo vendor third\-party/vendor
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Vendor the current workspace as well as another to \[lq]vendor\[rq]
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo vendor \-s ../path/to/Cargo.toml
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Vendor and redirect the necessary vendor configs to a config file.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo vendor > path/to/my/cargo/config.toml
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1)
