'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-ADD" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
cargo\-add \[em] Add dependencies to a Cargo.toml manifest file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcargo add\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcrate\fR\[u2026]
.br
\fBcargo add\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.br
\fBcargo add\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-git\fR \fIurl\fR [\fIcrate\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command can add or modify dependencies.
.sp
The source for the dependency can be specified with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fIcrate\fR\fB@\fR\fIversion\fR: Fetch from a registry with a version constraint of \[lq]\fIversion\fR\[rq]
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB\-\-path\fR \fIpath\fR: Fetch from the specified \fIpath\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB\-\-git\fR \fIurl\fR: Pull from a git repo at \fIurl\fR
.RE
.sp
If no source is specified, then a best effort will be made to select one, including:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'Existing dependencies in other tables (like \fBdev\-dependencies\fR)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'Workspace members
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'Latest release in the registry
.RE
.sp
When you add a package that is already present, the existing entry will be updated with the flags specified.
.sp
Upon successful invocation, the enabled (\fB+\fR) and disabled (\fB\-\fR) \fIfeatures\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.md> of the specified
dependency will be listed in the command\[cq]s output.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Source options"
.sp
\fB\-\-git\fR \fIurl\fR
.RS 4
\fIGit URL to add the specified crate from\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#specifying\-dependencies\-from\-git\-repositories>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-branch\fR \fIbranch\fR
.RS 4
Branch to use when adding from git.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-tag\fR \fItag\fR
.RS 4
Tag to use when adding from git.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-rev\fR \fIsha\fR
.RS 4
Specific commit to use when adding from git.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
\fIFilesystem path\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#specifying\-path\-dependencies> to local crate to add.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-registry\fR \fIregistry\fR
.RS 4
Name of the registry to use. Registry names are defined in \fICargo config
files\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&. If not specified, the default registry is used,
which is defined by the \fBregistry.default\fR config key which defaults to
\fBcrates\-io\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Section options"
.sp
\fB\-\-dev\fR
.RS 4
Add as a \fIdevelopment dependency\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#development\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-build\fR
.RS 4
Add as a \fIbuild dependency\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#build\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-target\fR \fItarget\fR
.RS 4
Add as a dependency to the \fIgiven target platform\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#platform\-specific\-dependencies>\&.
.sp
To avoid unexpected shell expansions, you may use quotes around each target, e.g., \fB\-\-target 'cfg(unix)'\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Dependency options"
.sp
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
.RS 4
Don\[cq]t actually write the manifest
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-rename\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
\fIRename\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying\-dependencies.html#renaming\-dependencies\-in\-cargotoml> the dependency.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-optional\fR
.RS 4
Mark the dependency as \fIoptional\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#optional\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-optional\fR
.RS 4
Mark the dependency as \fIrequired\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#optional\-dependencies>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-default\-features\fR
.RS 4
Disable the \fIdefault features\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#dependency\-features>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-default\-features\fR
.RS 4
Re\-enable the \fIdefault features\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#dependency\-features>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-F\fR \fIfeatures\fR, 
\fB\-\-features\fR \fIfeatures\fR
.RS 4
Space or comma separated list of \fIfeatures to
activate\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html#dependency\-features>\&. When adding multiple
crates, the features for a specific crate may be enabled with
\fBpackage\-name/feature\-name\fR syntax. This flag may be specified multiple times,
which enables all specified features.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-ignore\-rust\-version\fR
.RS 4
Ignore \fBrust\-version\fR specification in packages.
.sp
This option is unstable and available only on the
\fInightly channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html>
and requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable.
See <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/5579> for more information.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print cargo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Manifest Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBCargo.toml\fR file. By default, Cargo searches for the
\fBCargo.toml\fR file in the current directory or any parent directory.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-p\fR \fIspec\fR, 
\fB\-\-package\fR \fIspec\fR
.RS 4
Add dependencies to only the specified package.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-frozen\fR, 
\fB\-\-locked\fR
.RS 4
Either of these flags requires that the \fBCargo.lock\fR file is
up\-to\-date. If the lock file is missing, or it needs to be updated, Cargo will
exit with an error. The \fB\-\-frozen\fR flag also prevents Cargo from
attempting to access the network to determine if it is out\-of\-date.
.sp
These may be used in environments where you want to assert that the
\fBCargo.lock\fR file is up\-to\-date (such as a CI build) or want to avoid network
access.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-offline\fR
.RS 4
Prevents Cargo from accessing the network for any reason. Without this
flag, Cargo will stop with an error if it needs to access the network and
the network is not available. With this flag, Cargo will attempt to
proceed without the network if possible.
.sp
Beware that this may result in different dependency resolution than online
mode. Cargo will restrict itself to crates that are downloaded locally, even
if there might be a newer version as indicated in the local copy of the index.
See the \fBcargo\-fetch\fR(1) command to download dependencies before going
offline.
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBnet.offline\fR \fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Cargo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcargo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Cargo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where cargo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCargo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.cargo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcargo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/cargo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Cargo. Run \fBcargo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/cargo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Cargo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Cargo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Cargo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Add \fBregex\fR as a dependency
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo add regex
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Add \fBtrybuild\fR as a dev\-dependency
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo add \-\-dev trybuild
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Add an older version of \fBnom\fR as a dependency
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo add nom@5
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Add support for serializing data structures to json with \fBderive\fRs
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo add serde serde_json \-F serde/derive
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Add \fBwindows\fR as a platform specific dependency on \fBcfg(windows)\fR
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cargo add windows \-\-target 'cfg(windows)'
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcargo\fR(1), \fBcargo\-remove\fR(1)
